south wales all moving towards road user
charges
for every kilometer traveled in an
electric vehicle
that won't help convince drivers to make
the switch
but the coalition isn't too worried at
the moment we're um
we've got perfectly good petrol cars
that many people
choose to drive taking the long road to
an electric future
melissa clark abc news canberra
from rose bay to lake burley griffin a
seaplane could be the latest link
between sydney and
canberra a test flight into the heart of
the capital has turned heads
and if the 15-seater service is given
the green light
the planes could become a regular
fixture
a smooth landing for what could become a
regular site
we had to get a plane to land first just
so we could touch it feel it
and hear it albeit that i couldn't hear
too much
so so we'll start the consultation
process
in early in the new year but it wasn't
all plane sailing
the test flight to lake billy griffin
was to have taken off from sydney
harbour
sometimes you get lucky and unlucky with
the weather so it's pretty rare but the
sydney forecast this morning was really
awful
so we made the call quite early that we
would not attempt to depart from the
harbour on a demonstration flight like
this
and just take the safer option of
departing from bankstown airport
weather aside the proposal will have to
meet strict criteria to ensure the
protection of the lake
and the community will get to have a say
too today we've had noise monitors out
we've had heritage experts out
and we'll have to do a range of
investigations around
environmental impacts uh talk to the
lake users around how we all link
together
the company running the flights is yet
to confirm the cost of a one-way ticket
but says
it will be a financially viable option
for everyone primarily business and
government travel
because that's that is the largest
travel sector on on the canberra service
but
we're not discounting those tourism
packaging opportunities with those great
festivals and events that occur in
canberra
all throughout the year and we really
want to bring people to the heart of the
action
if given the go-ahead the flights will
run twice daily from the middle of next
year
jana black abc news canberra
time now to check the weather here's
graham creed we got a lot more wet
weather on the way for eastern
and northern parts of the continent and
the potential of some localised heavy
falls particularly in association with
thunderstorms
that's as the monsoon trough starts to
develop across the north of the
continent and a series of troughs bring
very unsettled conditions
to the eastern states so that means
widespread showers and thunderstorms for
queensland it'll just be hot and dry
through the southwest showers and storms
elsewhere
more widespread and more likely about
the southeast and also the far north
for new south wales it's also areas
through the east and two thirds looking
at widespread showers
and thunderstorms some localized heavy
falls will remain dry though through the
far western districts
we've also got a trough developing
through victoria this is
also going to bring unsettled conditions
so some showers about the west
we're also looking at the potential of
some drizzle about the more eastern
parts
isolated showers about the central and
eastern parts in the morning they'll
clear
then they redevelop as we move in
towards the evening become more
widespread from the northwest
for south australia we're also looking
at unsettled conditions mostly about the
southern districts and particularly
across the agricultural region
we're also looking at showers and
thunderstorms east of a trough that's
sitting
about the western parts of the southwest
land division so it's the more inland
areas
more likely to see those showers and
storms this should be confined to the
far north of the kimberley and also the
top end of the territory
we are also looking at the potential of
some localized heavy falls
[Music]
[Applause]
here are the top stories on abc news
israel's supreme court has rejected an
appeal by
former melbourne school principal malka
lifer
against a ruling to extradite it to
australia to face 74 charges of sexual
abuse
israel's justice minister can now sign
the extradition order to have her return
to melbourne to face trial
residents in parts of northern new south
wales are working to determine the
extent of the damage caused by extreme
rain
which made the tweed river burst its
banks and flood
nearby homes ses crews are continuing to
help residents near byron bay and
lismore to flee to higher ground
amid a lull in the weather that's
expected to break overnight
the prime minister scott morrison says a
potential china trade ban on australian
coal would be a lose-lose situation for
all sides
a chinese state-owned media outlet is
claiming power plants have been ordered
not to burn australian coal
beijing is yet to confirm the reports
and melbourne underworld figure tony
macbel has had one of his drug
convictions overturned as a result of
the lawyer x scandal
mock bell launched an appeal of a
30-year sentence after it emerged his
lawyer nicola gabo was also working as a
police informant
commonwealth prosecutors have indicated
they would not proceed with a retrial
given mock bell has already served his
time for that conviction
[Music]
let's get more now on our breaking news
there's been a major development in the
bid to extradite former melbourne school
principal malko lifer back to australia
middle east correspondent eric torchek
joins me now from jerusalem eric
talk us through this decision
karina the israeli supreme court has
ruled
that the rule has decided against an
appeal by malca leifer
which was an appeal against the
extradition ruling
a court the district court he found that
she could be extradited
to australia in the middle of this year
and
she appealed that decision and now the
supreme court has rejected that appeal
this is a significant uh decision
because it's the last time
uh that uh malcolm can appeal to the
supreme court
trying to block attempts to return her
to australia
and it means that israel's justice
minister will be able to sign the
extradition order
and she'll be able to jump onto a plane
and head and head to melbourne to face
trial
so she's now exhausted all of her
avenues for appeal
one of the judges commented that there's
no legal avenue that malcolm lifer's
defence team has not pursued
attempting to block her extradition this
case had stalled for a number of years
because she said that she was
incapacitated by mental illness
secretly filmed video by private
investigators
uh proved that to be untrue and then in
his subsequent israeli police
investigation
confirmed that and she was put in prison
on remand and the extradition hearings
were restarted
after a two-year delay and that's how we
came to this point two years later
it's actually been six years uh since
this process started
and the supreme court commented that now
you know there's there's nothing
stopping the
the extradition um there there is there
is one small uh thing that can happen
which is that um
the justice minister's signature can be
appealed but that's an administrative
process it doesn't go to a full hearing
of the supreme court
okay so what happens next how quickly
could she be on a plane back to
australia
well israel's justice minister um
tweeted in reaction uh
to this announcement that he will sign
the extradition order
without delay um which means that um
there's been a short period for that
administrative
appeal uh and then i i have been told by
um
the prosecution here this the israel
state attorney that they have 60 days uh
to get her on a plane uh out of the
country and actually the timing of that
depends on the australian government
because of the covert
entry restrictions uh into australia so
they'll need to coordinate
um with the department of home affairs
and the minister of ministry of foreign
affairs and trade
um to um you know to to get her into
australia
through quarantine uh so she can then uh
so she can then face trial in melbourne
eric what do you think this decision
will mean for the alleged victims
here in melbourne
well i just i just very briefly uh spoke
to them
they're expressing enormous happiness
and
relief and they now
though i mean it's been a very long
campaign for them
and 74 times this case has been to court
they've traveled to israel multiple
times
they had to seek high-level political
support
to put this case back on the agenda and
it became a very high profile issue of
tension
between the israeli and australian
governments which have an otherwise
excellent relationship
so it's been an exhausting process for
them they're overjoyed they're they're
relieved
um but now you know next year when this
trial starts they'll you know that
they know that um they're going to go
through more hard times ahead
okay eric warcheck our middle east
correspondent reporting from jerusalem
a northern territory police officer has
been caught on cctv grabbing and shoving
a teenage boy and threatening others in
the alice springs watch house
the incident has alarmed the nt's peak
aboriginal justice agency
which raised concerns about the extent
of change since the youth detention
royal commission
mik gooda was one of the commissioners
who led the royal commission
into the protection and detention of
children in the northern territory
he spoke to patricia carvalhos on
afternoon briefing
what was your reaction to watching this
video
i i just felt so bad i felt
for those boys being on the receiving
end of that abuse
it's not just the threats but it's the
language they use
and and when you look at the video
there's lots of other police officers
there and you know you think
geez one of those should have intervened
and said you know that's a bit over the
top
mate and and um and pulled it up but the
the abuse goes on and on and on in that
video
and even though it's two years ago it's
only six months after the royal
commission actually finished
in late 2017 and you know margaret white
and i tried so hard to connect with
everyone in the northern territory
including the police and we spent a lot
of time with the police
and they always tell us they're always
up for this reform but when you look at
this sort of stuff
they're not up for reform whatsoever and
and you know
like um uh the the recent statements
after that uh in in the last day or so
by the police commission actually
compounds the problem
you know asking for sympathy of a police
officer who's doing that to children
i think that's just outrages over the
top and just shows
a total lack of leadership on the
commissioner's part
does it surprise you that this incident
happened less than
six months after you delivered that
final report
well patricia you and i go back a long
way and you've often described me as
pollyanna and i am you know i think
good things that can happen um but
there's also realistic
part of me that thinks well that's just
what happens and
and that's what our kids are subject to
all the time although
you know i'm reaching out all the time
trying to change the way police behave
because of
across the country i've been a big
supporter of the police when police get
it right
wonderful things can happen and you only
got to look at
burke and new south wales and redfern in
inner city
sydney where the police took a lead with
the community on that and made some
really dramatic changes and i
just really think the police i've taken
of you
the big sustainable changes won't change
unless we get
won't come unless we get really good
police officers what we're seeing
in that video is not good police
officers if they're treating our
children like that
our kids just basically end up learning
to reciprocate and then we end up with
the cycle
of awful relationships between
aboriginal kids
young people in the police there are
fears the act is on the verge of a
mental health crisis
canberra hospital's emergency department
was forced to turn away patients some in
ambulances for several hours yesterday
afternoon
it's the second time it's imposed a
so-called bypass in just a matter of
weeks
act health says a surge in canberran
seeking critical mental health care
is pushing the emergency department to
capacity
it's the place canberrans turn to in an
emergency
but what happens when that place has to
turn them away
that was the reality yesterday when
canberra hospital's emergency department
reached capacity
for the second time in a matter of weeks
the first one was really just
very significant high demand on the
emergency department itself
the second one really was a lot of very
unwell
people already in the hospital unable to
be discharged
three ambulances had to be diverted to
calvary hospital
health authorities say a major factor
was a surge in mental health patients
that stretched ed staff to the limit the
average number of emergency department
presentations at this time of year is
about 240
a day on average over 24 hours over 24
hours
we've been seeing consistently between
270 and 300 presentations
the bypass began at midday and ended
four hours later
while it was short-lived this time there
are worries it could be the first sign
of the long-term effects of the pandemic
clearly we were expecting the impact of
this year
to affect people's mental health we
don't know if that's specifically the
reason but we are definitely seeing
increased mental health presentations
2020 has been a year of hardship and
uncertainty
canberra has battled through bushfires
and smoke the hailstorm
and a global pandemic that's kept
families apart and reshaped lives
mental health experts say long waiting
times for treatment mean many people are
now turning to hospitals for help
a lot of community services community
mental health services have seen
an incredible surge in demand experts
say that shouldn't discourage people in
crisis
there's still absolutely help available
to you so do make sure that you go ahead
and get that help
a complex problem in uncertain times
selby stewart abc news canberra
a report by the police watchdog has
found officers in new south wales are
confused about
when they can lawfully conduct a strip
search
a two-year inquiry found the laws
governing the controversial searches are
ambiguous and
unclear it's calling on the new south
wales parliament to spell out exactly
when police can order someone to remove
their clothes
they were meant to be a last resort but
a report by the law enforcement
conduct commission has found strip
searches
have become routine it found police are
not always clear on when such a search
is lawful
and it's called on the politicians to
provide clearer guidelines
they've made recommendations that
parliament really does need to
step in and step up because it's really
not fair to leave at all
to the police almost half of those
subjected to strip searches
are children and young people the report
calls for police to be made aware of the
potential for psychological harm
campaigners are disappointed the
recommendations don't go
further it is the only law in australia
that allows adults to direct a child as
young as 10
to take off all of their clothing stand
naked
while adults visually inspect their body
it is an antiquated piece of legislation
that needs to change
the report highlights the
disproportionate impact on aboriginal
people
who account for almost one in five
people strip searched
the greens say they're committed to
getting the recommended changes through
the parliament
so if this isn't a wake-up call to
parliament to actually do its job
and legislate legislate laws that
protect people's civil liberties
but also tell the police clearly
unambiguously what they can
and can't do the police force says it's
reviewing the watchdogs findings
it says police have already made
significant changes
to their strip search procedures and are
committed
to further improvements ursula malone
abc news sydney joe biden's election win
has been confirmed after electoral
college members formally cast votes for
him to replace donald trump
on january the 20th in a primetime
speech mr biden called on americans to
turn the page on the trump era
and says not even a pandemic can
extinguish the flame of democracy
the u.s today became the first country
to record a staggering
300 000 deaths from covert 19.
but as greg janet reports the rollout of
a mass vaccination program
is bringing hope anticipation matched
the scale of america's exposure
after 16 million cases and climbing the
fight back starts with a few
sharp shots doctors nurses and
supervisors on the front line
spoke of a vaccine as a peace settlement
i hope this marks the beginning to the
end of a very
painful time in our history three
two one and so it went at 145
locations around the country just under
three million doses will be in freezes
within two days we can meet our goal of
vaccinating every
american who wants it by the end of the
second quarter of 2021.
if the vaccine's arrival marks the
beginning of the end of the pandemic
then this day
also marks the terminal phase of donald
trump's presidency
his legal challenges to the election
have all flopped and from here on
his 75 million popular votes don't count
for much either
the nation's just taken a leap towards
electing its next president
and it won't be him 20 votes for the
honorable joseph r biden
for president of the united states in
pennsylvania and 49 other state
legislatures
the electoral college has delivered its
verdict
california pushed joe biden's tally
above the magic 270.
eyes 55 knows zero
no rogue votes and no upsets either the
flame of democracy was
lit in this nation a long time ago and
we now know
nothing not even a pandemic or an abuse
of power
can extinguish that flame donald trump's
calmly parting ways with the man who
wouldn't back his claims of systemic
voter fraud
attorney general william barr but still
no concession from him there may never
be one
greg janet abc news washington
is concerned a new strain of coronavirus
could be causing higher infection rates
in southeastern england more than 1 000
cases of the new variant have been
detected and london is a hot spot
with infection numbers doubling there as
quickly as every 5 days
the capital is among the areas being
pushed back into the highest level of
restrictions
from wednesday i must stress at this
point
that there is currently nothing to
suggest that this variant is more likely
to cause serious disease
and the latest clinical advice is that
it's highly unlikely
that this mutation would fail to respond
to a vaccine
but it shows we've got to be vigilant
but that didn't stop the prime minister
boris johnson promising a five-day
reprieve from restrictions over the
festive period
india has suffered one of the world's
worst outbreaks of coronavirus recording
almost
10 million cases of the disease in
recent weeks the crisis has eased but
the shocking death toll has left a deep
scar
more than 10 000 people have died in
delhi alone
and intensive care units remain at
capacity
with many patients suffering severe
symptoms south asia correspondent james
ocean reports
the pies at delhi's largest cremation
ground have been burning
around the clock
the situation is really bad forty to
fifty covered dead bodies are coming
daily
the last two months have been like this
the capital has just endured its
deadliest wave yet
at its peak five people were dying an
hour
and the death toll has remained
stubbornly high
the fear of getting infected is always
there but we are performing essential
duties so we have to work
we can't just run away so it's 9 30
right now
and i'm headed for my 24 hour shift it's
also been an unrelenting year for dr
nandini passi
who's documented her time on the front
line
i'm so tired i don't know whether to
eat or sleep or take a bath
dr passi's been scanning the lungs of
covered patients
she's seeing damage far worse than
previous waves
and that's clogging the intensive care
units there have been patients of state
for over a month in the hospital
doctors say covert 19 is still
unpredictable
and the sheer spread of the disease
means they're witnessing the gamut of
symptoms
there are young people many young people
who are getting quite a severe form of
infection
even though we were expecting a number
of rise in the cases what we were not
expecting was a rise in the severity
that was seen in the younger and the
middle-aged group
india's vaccination program could begin
as early as
next month i hope it just all of this
ends
real soon because i think the world has
seen enough but vaccinating the second
most populous nation
will be a long and arduous task james
oaten abc news
west australian all-rounder cameron
green will make his australian test
debut if he's deemed fit to play in the
first test against
india starting thursday in adelaide
green suffered a mild concussion last
week but coach justin langer says he's
recovering well
earning the right to don the baggy green
an exciting talent on the brink of
making his mark for australia
after hitting 100 against india for
australia a last week
green suffered a mild concussion while
bowling
oh straight back gee i'll tell you what
i reckon that has hit
cameron green in the head but the 21
year old will secure a baggy green if he
passes concussion tests
taking a spot in the middle order he's
obviously an excellent talent
he's earned the right for selection
through his performances in sheffield
shield cricket
so if he's fit and available then he'll
make his test debut a decision is yet to
be made on australia's opening
partnership
with joe burns under pressure because of
poor form
langer says manus labashayne won't move
up the order but he's backed matthew
wade to open if chosen
he's got the game for it he can counter
attack like david warner does like a lot
of the great openers do they they don't
just have strong defense but they
counter attack as well so he can
definitely do it
preparations are underway for the
visitors with virat kohli
only playing the first test before
flying home on paternity leave
and india's vice captain is well aware
the australian side they are up against
is very different to the team they
defeated two years ago
i think their team is really good really
balanced we just have to respect them
and play to our strength and our
potential i think that is the key in
this in the series
heading into the series with a positive
mindset the main focus for india
cameron schlesser abc news
the townsville fire will look to
capitalize on the home crowd advantage
with the entire wnbl
final series to be played in north
queensland after a convincing win over
adelaide at the weekend the fire secured
themselves a second chance
should they lose against the south side
flyers in their semi-final tomorrow
night
we're really excited by the fact that we
jumped into second at the last
last moment we enjoyed the win
the other night had a relaxing day
yesterday at the wmbl
awards and today it's back back into
business
the adelaide lightning didn't make the
finals but captain
steph talbot has been named the league's
mvp
adelaide united midfielder james troisi
has
signed with the western sydney wanderers
just hours after the reds announced he
was terminating his contract
the 32 year old signed a two-year deal
with adelaide in october last year but
asked the club to end his contract over
the weekend
adelaide united's head of football bruce
jete says the club was disappointed the
request came
just two weeks before the start of the
a-league season he says the wonder is
inquired about the south australian
earlier this year
but were knocked back they inquired
about james a couple of months ago and
and we wrote back to him that he's a
required player and
we'd appreciate if they did not approach
the player
and they subsequently agreed to that and
thanked us for
you know the the the feedback
adelaide's first game of the year is set
for monday the 28th of december against
western united for tasmanians dreaming
of a white christmas those prayers have
been answered on a small scale
with only 10 more sleeps until the big
day a team has been working
around the clock to complete an
ambitious festive project
a swiss alpine model train scene means
one thing
[Music]
it's christmas who created this one and
where it can be seen
might be a surprise no matter who you
are you can't help but
feel a sense of awe and wonder when you
encounter
a miniature world with trains
mona was one of the first businesses to
close in mid-march
due to the pandemic the museum will
reopen to the public on boxing day
the mona rail however will be available
to see
a week earlier it's been so quiet here
it's really nice to open again
and we're so excited keisha keshala was
inspired to create the winter wonderland
after she and her daughter saw one in a
hotel lobby in hong kong
turning that inspiration into reality
has involved a huge amount of work
a local model train group estimated the
build would take
two years we've been working around the
clock
for two months to have it completed by
christmas
emily wood led the project with the help
of an artist urban planner and model
train enthusiast
it's a utopia so it's a little community
of in itself
and it has a village a town a carnival a
ski slope
a ice skating rink and even a graveyard
last year
over four hundred thousand people
visited mona but keisha kessler and her
husband david walsh
also call this place home and they can't
wait to celebrate christmas
with guests eggnog and mulled wine and
hot chocolate and christmas treats
so it's a it's a total christmas
experience
the ticketed event begins on saturday
luke bowden abc news
time to check the weather with graham
creed we got a lot more wet weather on
the way for eastern
and northern parts of the continent and
the potential of some localised heavy
falls particularly in association with
thunderstorms
that's as the monsoon trough starts to
develop across the north of the
continent and a series of troughs bring
very unsettled conditions
to the eastern states so that means
widespread showers and thunderstorms for
queensland it'll just be hot and dry
through the southwest showers and storms
elsewhere
more widespread and more likely about
the southeast and also the far north for
new south wales
it's also areas through the east and two
thirds looking at widespread showers
and thunderstorms some localized heavy
falls will remain dry though through the
far western districts
we've also got a trough developing
through victoria this is also
going to bring unsettled conditions so
some showers about the west
we're also looking at the potential of
some drizzle about the more eastern
parts
isolated showers about the central and
eastern parts in the morning they'll
clear
then they redevelop as we're moving
towards the evening become more
widespread from the northwest
for south australia we're also looking
at unsettled conditions mostly about the
southern districts and particularly
across the agricultural region
we're also looking at showers and
thunderstorms east of a trough that's
sitting about the western parts of the
southwest land division so it's the more
inland areas
more likely to see those showers and
storms that should be confined to the
far north of the kimberley and also the
top end of the territory
we are also looking at the potential of
some localized heavy falls
let's recap our breaking news this hour
israel's supreme court has rejected an
appeal by former melbourne school
principal malka lifer
against a ruling to extradite her to
australia to face 74 charges of sexual
abuse israel's justice minister can now
sign the extradition order to have her
return to melbourne to face trial
it's believed lifer has now exhausted
all avenues of appeal
the case has been running for years it's
been to court
74 times already her alleged victims in
melbourne are reported to be
enormously happy and relieved by the
news
well that's abc news for now thanks for
your company i'm karina cavallo
the headlines are next followed by the
[Music]
drum
[Applause]
for those of you who haven't thrown out
your 2020 bingo cards did you have this
one
in a year where everything has been
unexpected join us to make sense of it
all
when boris johnson is on the phone
saying i'm sorry to bring this up we
listen to the experts when it comes to
the pandemic but we're not listening to
the experts when it comes to climate
change this is the difficult thing for
women middle age
we have hagdon to look forward to a
proud millennial right here
i already grew all of this grace i'm
just gonna hang here the drum
weeknights at six on abc and iview
all right so let's all please bring our
again
we're actually looking at the site of
one of the greatest crimes of humanity
depending on what character i'm doing it
makes